README.md, before:


# dasymetric

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of dasymetric is to display statistical data in meaningful
spatial zones

## Installation

You can install the released version of dasymetric from
[CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org) with:

``` r
install.packages("dasymetric")
```

And the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("JaFro96/dasymetric")
```

## Example

As a case study the districts of Münster were chosen and we try to
predict the population counts on the basis of land cover data.

<img src="man/figures/README-districts-1.png" width="100%" />

<img src="man/figures/README-land_cover-1.png" width="100%" />

You’ll still need to render `README.Rmd` regularly, to keep `README.md`
up-to-date. `devtools::build_readme()` is handy for this. You could also
use GitHub Actions to re-render `README.Rmd` every time you push. An
example workflow can be found here:
<https://github.com/r-lib/actions/tree/master/examples>.

Commit message:

add data sources and improve explanation

README.md, after:


# dasymetric

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of [dasymetric mapping](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dasymetric_map) is to display statistical data (like census data) in meaningful spatial zones. 

## Installation

You can install the development version from [GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("JaFro96/dasymetric")
```

## Example

As a case study we try to predict population counts for each districts of Münster with land cover data as ancillary information.

<img src="man/figures/README-districts-1.png" width="100%" />

<img src="man/figures/README-land_cover-1.png" width="100%" />

## Data Sources
- CORINE Land Cover 5 ha --> [© GeoBasis-DE / BKG (2021)](https://gdz.bkg.bund.de/index.php/default/catalog/product/view/id/1071/s/corine-land-cover-5-ha-stand-2018-clc5-2018/category/8/?___store=default)

- district boundaries --> [opendata.stadt-muenster.de](https://opendata.stadt-muenster.de/dataset/geokoordinaten-der-stadtteil-grenzen-geometriedaten-der-kleinr%C3%A4umigen-gebietsgliederung)

- population counts --> [opendata.stadt-muenster.de](opendata.stadt-muenster.de)
